SSO (#356)
neo4j/docs-aura: modules/ROOT/pages/platform/security/single-sign-on.adoc

label:AuraDB-Enterprise[]
label:AuraDS-Enterprise[]

== Introduction to SSO / OAuth

> Aura Enterprise supports Single Sign-On (SSO) at the organization, project and instance level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aura Enterprise supports Single Sign-On (SSO) at the organization, project, and instance level.
```

> * Grant secure access to data and keep data safe.
> * At the same time, secure access for colleagues without being hammered down by security and data access teams.
> * If you have access to specific parts of the Aura Console, you can move between different parts of the Aura console without having to re-login.
> 
> This documentation demonstrates how to easily set up Aura SSO for automatic access to data with Role Based Access Control (RBAC) so you can centrally control privileges (read/write/delete/etc) as well as data access (only access the data you are permitted to access).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SSO allows for both keeping data safe and providing authorized users safe access to the data.
This section describes how to set up Aura SSO with Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) for centrally controlled privileges as well as data access.
```

== Requirements

Accessing Aura with SSO requires:
 
* Authorization Code Flow with PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange).
* A publicly accessible Identity Provider (IdP) server.

== Configuring SSO 

> Customers can configure a combination of one or more of the following login methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can configure a combination of one or more of the following login methods:
```

* Email/password
* Okta
* Microsoft Entra ID (previously Azure Active Directory)

> You can add Aura as a log in from a tile in an organization's Apps Dashboard.

Reviewer: In this case, who are we referring to with "You"? A user? An admin?

Author: The admin

== Home Realm Discovery 

Home Realm Discovery (HRD) is when a user enters their email on the login form, an Auth0 connection that is configured with a domain that matches the email domain will redirect the user to the Auth0 connection Idp.

Users that have HRD enabled are redirected to a view where they can select from a list of their IdPs, if the customer has configured more than one IdP.

> = Information required in the Aura Console to set up SSO 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== SSO setup requirements 
```

To configure SSO from the Aura side, go to the *Aura Console > Settings > SSO Configuration.*

The set-up form requires the following info:

* SSO config ID - you decide a name for this
* IdP type (e.g. Okta / Microsoft Entra ID)
* Channel
* Client ID 
* Client Secret
* Discovery URI
* Issuer
* Authorization Endpoint

> = Organization SSO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Organization SSO
```
If you want to brand new chapter, you have to create a new file. Only one top-level (=) header per file is allowed.

label:AuraDB-Enterprise[]
label:AuraDS-Enterprise[]

== Introduction to SSO

Aura Enterprise supports Single Sign-On (SSO) at the organization, project, and instance level.

Aura Admins can configure organization and project level SSO. Aura Support can configure instance level SSO. 

SSO allows for both keeping data safe and providing authorized users safe access to the data.
This section describes how to set up Aura SSO with Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) for centrally controlled privileges as well as data access.

== Requirements

Accessing Aura with SSO requires:
 
* Authorization Code Flow with PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange).
* A publicly accessible Identity Provider (IdP) server.

== Configuring SSO 

Users can configure a combination of one or more of the following login methods:

* Email/password
* Okta
* Microsoft Entra ID (previously Azure Active Directory)

> An organization's admin can add Aura as a log in from a tile in an organization's Apps Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An organization's admin can add Aura as a login from a tile in an organization's Apps Dashboard.
```

== Home Realm Discovery 

> Home Realm Discovery (HRD) is when a user enters their email on the login form, an Auth0 connection that is configured with a domain that matches the email domain will redirect the user to the Auth0 connection IdP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Home Realm Discovery (HRD) is enabled, and a user’s email domain matches the configured domain, they are redirected to the Auth0 connection IdP. 
Once authenticated, the user has access to both the company organization and their personal organization. 
If HRD is disabled, the user logs in with their password, but only has access to their personal organization, once authenticated.
```
But I'm not sure is this information belongs here, maybe we can move it down?

> Users that have HRD enabled are redirected to a view where they can select from a list of their IdPs, if the customer has configured more than one IdP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
From the Miro board:
_Cannot have multiple idps with the same email for HRD._

== SSO setup requirements 

> To configure SSO from the Aura side, go to the *Aura Console > Settings > SSO Configuration.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure SSO from Aura, go to the *Aura Console > Settings > SSO Configuration.*
```

The set-up form requires the following info:

* SSO config ID - you decide a name for this
* IdP type (e.g. Okta / Microsoft Entra ID)
* Channel
* Client ID 
* Client Secret
* Discovery URI
* Issuer
* Authorization Endpoint

== Organization SSO

Organization SSO allows log in to the Aura Console using organization IdP credentials.

> To facilitate organization SSO login, an Auth0 organization will need to be created and all users will need to be added to the auth0 organization. Tenants/projects will need to have an organization associated with them, and users will be added to the organization when they are invited and join.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To facilitate organization SSO login, you need to create an Auth0 organization and you need to add all users to the auth0 organization. 
Tenants/projects need to have an organization associated with them, and users are added to the organization when they are invited and join.
```

Reviewer: Maybe rewrite this section.

== Mapping an organization

When you map an organization to your IdP, Aura grants users who authenticate through the IdP membership in the selected organization.

> You can give these users a default role in the selected organization. There can be multiple organizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can give these users a default role in the selected organization.
```

Organization mapping lets you configure a single IdP to grant users access to multiple organizations within the Neo4j Aura Console. 

.Organization roles
[cols="25m,75v"]
|===
| Role | Permissions

| Organization Owner
| • Full access to read/write organization

• Full access to list/read/write tenants

• Given to self serve users during registration instead of a tenant role

• Can create/edit/delete SSO [Enterprise Only]

• Can invite to any role up to owner

| Organization Admin
| • Full access to read/write org details

• Full access to list/create tenants

• Can create/edit/delete SSO [Enterprise Only]

• Can invite to any role up to admin

| Organization Member (Default when added to tenant)
| • Full access to read organization

• Full access to list tenants

• Default role for users given access to a single tenant via invite/marketplace

|===

== Console SSO

> Console SSO allows log in to the Aura Console using company IdP credentials and grants link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/cypher-manual/current/administration/access-control/built-in-roles#access-control-built-in-roles-public[Public Access privileges] to all instances in the tenant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Console SSO allows log in to the Aura Console using company IdP credentials and grants Public Access privileges to all instances in the tenant.
See link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri/operations-manual/5/authentication-authorization/built-in-roles/#access-control-built-in-roles-public[Operations Manual -> The `PUBLIC` role^] for more information.
```

== Introduction to SSO

Single Sign-On (SSO) allows for both keeping data safe and providing authorized users safe access to the data.
This section describes how to set up Aura SSO with Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) for centrally controlled privileges as well as data access.

Aura Enterprise supports SSO at the organization, project, and instance levels.
Aura admins can configure organization and project level SSO while Aura Support can configure instance level SSO.

== Requirements

Accessing Aura with SSO requires:
 
* Authorization Code Flow with PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange).
* A publicly accessible Identity Provider (IdP) server.

== Configuring SSO 

Users can configure a combination of one or more of the following login methods:

* Email/password
* Okta
* Microsoft Entra ID (previously Azure Active Directory)

An organization's admin can add Aura as a login from a tile in an organization's Apps Dashboard.

== SSO setup requirements 

To configure SSO from Aura, go to the *Aura Console > Settings > SSO Configuration.*

The set-up form requires the following info:

* SSO config ID - you decide a name for this
* IdP type (e.g. Okta / Microsoft Entra ID)

> * Channel

Reviewer 2: I don't think channel will be available to customers.

* Client ID 
* Client Secret
* Discovery URI
* Issuer

> * Authorization Endpoint

Reviewer 2: You need either:
- discovery uri

or 
- Issuer	
- Authorization Endpoint	
- Token Endpoint	
- JWKS URI

all of Issuer Authorization Endpoint Token Endpoint JWKS URI are provided in the discovery uri, so they need either or.

== Organization SSO

Organization SSO allows log in to the Aura Console using organization IdP credentials.

To facilitate organization SSO login, you need to create an Auth0 organization and add all users to it.

> Then you need to associate tenants/projects with an organization and add the users to it when they accept invitations to join.

Reviewer 2: The customer does not need to create an auth0 organizaiton. They only need to create an sso configuration in console under their organization, and then choose to apply it as an organization login method.
https://www.figma.com/design/wwLkCJA8MTt6KVrgf1y5rN/Main-file?node-id=12421-4479&t=2QpeEWrviayngGNj-0

You can see in the design that sso configs can be applied as an organization login method, or applied to tenants to be used on newly created instances.

Atm customers also cannot create projects, not associate projects with an org. That will come later in UPX.

== Mapping an organization

When you map an organization to your IdP, Aura grants membership in that organization to users who authenticate through the IdP .

You can give these users a default role in the selected organization.

Organization mapping lets you configure a single IdP to grant users access to multiple organizations within the Neo4j Aura Console. 

.Organization roles
[cols="25m,75v"]
|===
| Role | Permissions

| Organization Owner
| • Full access to read/write organization

• Full access to list/read/write tenants

• Given to self serve users during registration instead of a tenant role

• Can create/edit/delete SSO [Enterprise Only]

• Can invite to any role up to owner

| Organization Admin
| • Full access to read/write org details

• Full access to list/create tenants

• Can create/edit/delete SSO [Enterprise Only]

• Can invite to any role up to admin

| Organization Member (Default when added to tenant)
| • Full access to read organization

• Full access to list tenants

> • Default role for users given access to a single tenant via invite/marketplace

Reviewer 2: This doesn't exist yet. Users can only define role mappings for their instances

|===

== Home Realm Discovery 

> If Home Realm Discovery (HRD) is enabled, and a user’s email domain matches the configured domain, they are redirected to the Auth0 connection IdP. 

Reviewer 2: We don't need to mention Auth0 to the customer i don't beleive. Ideally they know nothing at all about auth0. They are just redirected from our login page to their IDP's login page.

Once authenticated, the user has access to both the company organization and their personal organization. 
If HRD is disabled, the user logs in with their password, but only has access to their personal organization, once authenticated.

== Console SSO

> Console SSO allows log in to the Aura Console using company IdP credentials and grants Public Access privileges to all instances in the tenant.

Reviewer 2: This seems quite confusing, isn't this just instance level sso? 

Console/Instance sso does not allow them to log in to the aura console, thats what organization sso does. Instance/console sso can be configured without organization sso, so users _could_ be required to login to console with email/pw but they can use sso to access instnaces.

Reviewer 2: So reading a bit further, there is a section on instance sso using the old process of going through support. Console SSO and Instance SSO are the same, we configure the same stuff. The main difference is that support has more control of the sso configuration as they can do special stuff manually in the raw neo4j.conf file. Our goal is to bridge the gap between what users can configure in the UI and what they can configure via support. But they are the same feature.

I think it might be better to establish the feature gaps between what the customer can do for console/instance sso and what support can do, so they know when to reach out to support for a particular feature. Off the top of my head those features are:
- Role mapping specific to a database
- custom groups claim besides `groups`
- Updating sso of already running instances.

Maybe support has more they can add here
